Use the following commands to make a fresh clone of your repository:

```
git clone -b f3 git@gitlab.epfl.ch:lamp/student-repositories-s21/cs206-GASPAR.git f3
```

## Useful links

  * [The API documentation of the Scala standard library](https://www.scala-lang.org/files/archive/api/2.13.4)
  * [The API documentation of the Java standard library](https://docs.oracle.com/en/java/javase/15/docs/api/index.html)

**If you have issues with the IDE, try [reimporting the
build](https://gitlab.epfl.ch/lamp/cs206/-/blob/master/labs/example-lab.md#ide-features-like-type-on-hover-or-go-to-definition-do-not-work),
if you still have problems, use `compile` in sbt instead.**

## Problem description
### Preliminary: File handling

In this exercise, we will work with files using the following trait to handle
all file operations:
```scala
type FileName = String
trait FileSystem:
  /** Create a new file named `file` with the passed `content`. */
  def createFile(file: File, content: String): Unit
  /** If `file` exists, return its content, otherwise crash. */
  def readFile(file: File): String
  /** If `file` exists, delete it, otherwise crash. */
  def deleteFile(file: File): Unit
```
Note that to make testing easier, the actual implementation of `FileSystem` we will use
won't actually create files on disks, instead it will simply use a `Map` to
represent files and their content in memory, but that's an implementation detail
that won't affect how this exercise should be solved.

### The update distribution problem

You work at a game company on the popular online game EPFNite™. Your job is
to distribute game updates to the players from the update server represented by
the following class:
```scala
class UpdateServer:
  def fetchUpdate(): Option[String]
  def newUpdate(newName: FileName, newContent: String): Unit
```
The requirements of the update server are as follows:
- When a player starts his game, it connects to the update server which starts a
  new thread and run `fetchUpdate()` which should return the content of the latest game update
  if one is available.
- When a new version of the game is available, the developers call
  `newUpdate` with the name of the update file and its content.
- Storage space is limited on the server, so when a new update is stored on the
  server, old ones must be deleted.

Based on these requirements, you come up with the following implementation:

```scala
class UpdateServer(fs: FileSystem):
  @volatile private var updateFile: Option[FileName] = None

  def fetchUpdate(): Option[String] =
    updateFile.map(fs.readFile)

  def newUpdate(newName: FileName, newContent: String): Unit =
    val oldFile = updateFile
    fs.createFile(newName, newContent)
    updateFile = Some(newName)
    oldFile.foreach(fs.deleteFile)
```
Unfortunately, it turns out that reading a file is not an atomic operation: if
you delete a file while another thread is reading it, your program crashes.
Theoretically, you could solve this using locks to make sure `deleteFile`
is never called at the same time as `readFile`, but this solution isn't good
enough for EPFNite: it's important that a player is never blocked from playing
the game because `fetchUpdate` is waiting for a lock to become available.

Thankfully, there is one property of the problem which we can take advantage of:
a call to `fetchUpdate` which happens *after* `updateFile = Some(newName)` will
read the new file and not the old one, so all we need to do is to wait until all
calls to `fetchUpdate` which were started *before* we mutated `updateFile` have
finished before calling `deleteFile`. It turns out that there exists one
mechanism to do this efficiently: **RCU** (Read-copy-update) which you will implement in the next
section.

## Implementation
### Part 1: Complete the `ThreadMap` implementation

To implement RCU we will need a thread-safe way to associate a value to a
thread: this is the job of `ThreadMap` (defined in `ThreadMap.scala`) which we
implement with a `Map` whose keys are instances of `Thread`
(`Thread.currentThread` can be used to retrieve the instance for the current
thread).

Instead of the usual `forall` method on collections, `ThreadMap` has a
`waitForall` method which will **block** until all entries of the map return
true for the predicate. For example given `val m: ThreadMap[Int]`, if one thread
runs:
```scala
m.setCurrentThread(1)
```
and another thread runs:
```scala
m.waitForall(_ < 0)
```
Then the second thread will be blocked, but if the first thread then runs:
```scala
m.setCurrentThread(-1)
```
The second thread will be immediately unblocked.

Your first task is to **implement all methods in `ThreadMap.scala` whose body is
currently `???`.** Once you're done, the "Part 1" test will pass.

### Part 2: Complete the `RCU` implementation

#### What is RCU ?

The RCU API defines three methods:

```scala
class RCU:
  def startRead(): Unit
  def stopRead(): Unit
  def waitForOldReads(): Unit
```

It has the following contract:
- The first two methods are meant to be used by threads that read shared data:
  they must must call `startRead` *before* reading shared data, then call
  `stopRead` once they're done reading.
- `waitForOldReaders()` can be called from any thread: this is a blocking method
  that only returns when all reads started *before* the call to
  `waitForOldReaders()` are stopped (new reads may have started since then).

#### Implementing RCU

To implement RCU we need a way to differentiate reads started before a call to
`waitForOldReaders()` from those started after. To do so we will use *version
numbers*: the RCU version (starting at 0) is stored in `latestVersion`, and for
each *active* reader thread, we remember the value of `latestVersion` *at the time
startRead() was called* in `readersVersion`. Implementing `waitForOldReaders` is
then easy:
1. Increment the RCU version.
2. Wait until there's no active reader associated with a previous version.

**Implement `waitForOldReaders` in `RCU.scala`**, for simplicity you can assume
that `waitForOldReaders` will never be called from multiple threads at once.
Once you're done, the "Part 2" test will pass.

### Part 3: Using RCU in `UpdateServer`

Finally, its time to put our RCU implementation to good use: **complete the
implementation of `fetchUpdate` and `newUpdate`** (defined in `UpdateServer.scala`) by adding calls to
`rcu.startRead()`, `rcu.stopRead()` and `rcu.waitForOldReaders()` where they
need to be to allow multiple calls to `fetchUpdate` and at most one call to
`newUpdate` to be run concurrently. Once you're done, the "Part 3" test will
pass.
